black scholes
call price = underlying price * probability of in the money (CNF) - strike price * probability of in the money (adjusted
for cost of carrying that asset over time) * e^-rT (to find present value of future strike price)
10 dollar in the future worth 9.95 now because of opportunity to earn interest
call price = current value * probability in the money - present value of strike price * probability in the money
limitations:
risk-free rate, volatility are assumed to be constant while calculating price. if interest rates change: inaccurate pricing
only used to price European options: U.S. options could be exercised before the expiration date.
Mitigation:
term structure of interest rates done by defining the rate curve, then interpolating based on maturity


monte carlo
assume stock price moves in brownian motion (random): generate many test scenarios, account for risk free interest rate, 
volatility and a random shock, Z, generated from a normal distribution. if strike price for call more than future price,
put zero. if not take difference, average it over all simulations. then discount that to present value.
limitations:
computationally intensive
assume that returns are log-normal
mitigation:
relax the log-normal distribution through bootstrapping (random sampling of daily returns) using historical data
calculates stock price each day, t/225 as 225 trading days, volatility = variance of historical returns, Z = randomly 
sampled historical returns. 2D array of number of simulations and number of days. still accounts for r per day and 
movement randomly sampled.
basically use past data instead of log-normal distribution (more context)

binomial tree
underlying price -> two options, u or d. u depends on volatility and time step, d is inverse. time step is based on how accurate/calculation intensive you want model to be.
each u and d has probability. u has p, p is risk neutral probability, based on risk free interest rate, how likely it is to be at u. d is 1-p.
1 step: calculate expected payoff based on p, u and d. discount it to present value = call price.
multi step:
calculate payoff at all final nodes. then for all penultimate nodes, calculate value by p * up payoff + 1-p * down payoff then discounted to that period's value (fair value of call at that point in time). then use that value for payoff, discount again (p chance it will be worth up and 1-p chance it will be down) and calculate until root node. for american options: option value is max(option value and payoff if exercised at that time)

finite difference method for calculating greeks (move stock price by small amount, see how option values changes)

10-Year Treasury Constant Maturity Rate (DGS10) is the yield on U.S. Treasury securities with a constant maturity of 10 years. This rate is published by the Federal Reserve and is often used as a proxy for the "risk-free rate" in financial models.
based on current market conditions to test the 3 models
- current option data (start date changed to today no matter what), sigma, k, r all relative to today
- stock price is the latest price from the market
- based on these 2, models calculate option price. then find difference to actual current option price.

incorporate risk free interpolation
incorporate bootstrapping for monte carlo
HOW TO TEST ALL THESE MODELS